---
title: 'Biggest Beginner Mistakes When Making Industrial Furniture'
author: 'Hank Alexander'
date: '2020-09-12'
hero_image: ../static/modern-industrial.jpg
---

## Rusted Steel

By far the most common mistake made by beginner industrial furniture builders is letting moisture get into the steel before finishing. If you have ever picked up a length of steel and noticed it has become covered in a thin layer of rust, you are not alone. Raw, unfinished steel rusts extremely quickly, a process known as flash rusting. To avoid this make sure you wax steel as soon as possible after millscale is removed, to form a protective moisture barrier. 

## Metal Parts Going Out of Square

One of the quirks of welding is that a length of steel will try to pull towards the arc, ie. where the heat is. The more heat there is the more the metal will move. To minimise this effect it is usually best to "tack" parts together with small welded blobs, before fully welding an entire joint. These tacks should be placed at opposite points, rather than in sequence, much like tightening wheelnuts on a car. Don't worry if your tacks are still visible after welding, you can easily grind them down later.

## Warped Wooden Table Tops or Shelves

Just like any other piece of wooden furniture, the wooden components of industrial style furniture are susceptible to the effects of moisture (furniture simply doesn't like moisture remember the rusted steel?) This can be avoided by only using seasoned or kiln dried timber. If you want to be absolutely sure the timber you are using to build your industrial style furniture is sufficintly moisture free, you can purchase a low cost moisture detector which will tell you exactly how much water your timber contains.